Note that these instructions assume you're working from this
directory on an updated local clone of the repository, and that
your account is a member of the puppet group for access to the
puppet keys::

  sudo adduser YOURUSER puppet

(Remember to log out and back into your shell if you add yourself
to a group.)

To launch a node in the OpenStack CI account (production servers)::

  . ~root/ci-launch/openstackci-rs-nova.sh
  export FQDN=servername.openstack.org
  sudo puppet cert generate $FQDN
  ./launch-node.py $FQDN

To launch a node in the OpenStack Jenkins account (slave nodes)::

  . ~root/ci-launch/openstackjenkins-rs-nova.sh
  export FQDN=slavename.slave.openstack.org
  export CERT=slavetype.slave.openstack.org
  nova image-list
  export IMAGE='Ubuntu 12.10 (Quantal Quetzal)'
  nova flavor-list
  export RAM=2048
  sudo puppet cert generate $CERT
  ./launch-node.py $FQDN --cert $CERT.pem --image "$IMAGE" --ram $RAM

If you are launching a replacement server, you may skip the generate
step and specify the name of an existing puppet cert (as long as the
private key is on this host).

The server name and cert names may be different (as in the Jenkins
slave example), but launch-node.py will assume they are the same
unless specified.

Manually add the hostname to DNS (the launch script does not do so
automatically). Note that this example assumes you've already
exported a relevant FQDN and sourced the appropriate API credentials
above.

DNS
===

There are no scripts to handle DNS at the moment due to a lack of
library support for the new Rackspace Cloud DNS (with IPv6).  To
manually update DNS, you will need the hostname, v4 and v6 addresses
of the host, as well as the UUID (these can all be found by running
the ''nova list'' command).  The environment variables used in the
URL should be satisfied by sourcing the "openstackci-rs-nova.sh"
script (or jenkins, as appropriate). Also the above launch script
should output some environment variable assignments for UUID, IPV4
and IPV6 you can cut and paste as needed, or you can fill them in
yourself::

  . ~root/rackdns-venv/bin/activate

  UUID=01234567-89ab-cdef-fedc-ba9876543210
  IPV4=123.45.67.89
  IPV6=fedc:ba98:7654:3210:dead:beef:cafe:feed

  rackdns rdns-create --name $FQDN --data "$IPV6" --server-href https://$os_region_name.servers.api.rackspacecloud.com/v2/$OS_TENANT_NAME/servers/"$UUID" --ttl 300
  rackdns rdns-create --name $FQDN --data "$IPV4" --server-href https://$os_region_name.servers.api.rackspacecloud.com/v2/$OS_TENANT_NAME/servers/"$UUID" --ttl 300

  . ~root/ci-launch/openstack-rs-nova.sh
  rackdns record-create --name $FQDN --type AAAA --data "$IPV6" --ttl 300 openstack.org
  rackdns record-create --name $FQDN --type A --data "$IPV4" --ttl 300 openstack.org
